When shall we use recursion.
This is the role that I like to use.
When it gets to complicated problems like traversing or searching through trees or graphs something
that we're going to talk about with graph for search and depth for search recursion is really really
useful and better than iterative approaches and we're sorting through items.
There's also cases that will see that recursion is preferred and when it comes to recursion these are
the rules that I like to follow every time we're using a tree or converting something into a tree.
Consider recursion and there's three key things in an interview question that might trigger a recursive
solution one is that a problem can be divided into a number of subproblems that are smaller instances
of that same problem such as the exercises we've done with Fibonacci numbers or factorial.
We can break those down into little trees that break down to smaller and smaller pieces.
Those are inherently recursive problems.
Another factor is that each of these instances of problem is in identical in nature.
That is the calculations that we need to do are pretty much the same.
They may be smaller values but the actual calculations underneath it is all the same.
Over and over and over.
And then finally the third point is that those solutions if you solve the smaller problems those leaf
nodes of that tree and you combine them.
That solves the problem at hand then that is a recursive solution that you can use.
And you'll see a lot of divide and conquer using recursion.
Remember divide and conquer which we mentioned when we got to the tree data structure lesson's it's
kind of like looking through a phone book when you're looking for Bell in the phone book.
You're not going to start from a and simply go one page at a time from left to right.
No you usually split the phonebook in the middle or try to go to the B section of the phone book and
start dividing up the problem page by page until you get closer and closer this divide and conquer type
of questions usually have recursion in them.
And as we know the one thing they're recursions can do that looping can't is that they can make tasks
super super easy such as these types of problems.
As a matter of fact I encourage you to write your own traverse function that we use in our tree data
structure.
This is something that we're going to get to when we get to searching and the algorithm section but
if you want to challenge yourself.
See if he can write a traverse function like I did over here using recursion and then also tried to
write code with loops.
You'll see that with loops things like tree traversal is a headache.
I can even do it on the top of my head with recursion.
It's pretty straightforward with loops you usually have to maintain some sort of stack to keep track
of things.
And it really adds a lot of complexity.
So use the rules below to notice when a recursive problem presents itself during an interview.
I'll leave a few more exercises for you after this video but as we'll see we'll come back to this topic
when we get into other algorithms sections and things will start to get clearer and clearer.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.